README.md, before:

### **user_updater**

A simple tool for automatic system updates using [`topgrade`](https://github.com/topgrade-rs/topgrade),  
featuring a background systemd service and a lightweight GUI to notify users of ongoing updates.

> Only Unix systems are supported.  
> macOS *might* work, but is not officially supported.

---

###  Features

- Automatic system updates via [`topgrade`](https://github.com/topgrade-rs/topgrade)
- GUI notification when updates are in progress (`yad` popup window)
- A temporary, passwordless `builder` user (name randomized)
- Secure by default — `builder` has no login access and is deleted after use
- Background updates via systemd
- GUI notification autostarts per user
- Minimal system impact — zero interference with your daily use

---

### Why It's Great for New or Non-Technical Linux Users

Many Linux users especially beginners or those who use Linux casually  
forget or don’t know how to keep their systems updated.

**user_updater** solves this by:

- Automatically updating your system in the background — no terminal skills required
- Showing a friendly popup when updates are happening, so you know not to shut down or reboot during critical updates
- Ensuring your system stays secure and maintained with minimal input

It also runs safely by:
- Using a separate background user
- Not requiring you to enter your password every time
- Deleting the `builder` user after its job is done, preventing abuse

---

### Install

Install with a single command:

```bash
bash <(curl -s https://codeberg.org/marvin1099/user_updater/raw/branch/main/install.sh)
```

---

### Dependencies

You'll need the following tools installed (the installer will try to fetch them for you):

```
git awk sudo topgrade yad
```

If any are missing, install them manually using your package manager (e.g., `pacman`, `apt`, `dnf`, etc.), and ensure they’re in your `PATH`.

---

### How It Works

1. **Creates a temporary user:**  
   A locked, randomized `builder` user is created with passwordless `sudo` access — only used for running updates.

2. **Systemd handles updates:**  
   A service runs at boot as root, switches to `builder`, and launches `topgrade` to update your system silently in the background.

3. **Notifies logged-in users:**  
   A lightweight GUI (`yad`) pops up on each desktop user account, showing that updates are in progress.

4. **Self-cleans:**  
   Once the update job is complete, the `builder` user is deleted to eliminate any potential security risk.

---

### After Installation

- **Restart or relogin** to activate the updater and GUI.
- **Adding new users?**  
  Restart once to index them (or rerun install.sh), and again to show the GUI for them.

Even if the GUI doesn’t show up yet, updates are still running in the background.


### File Locations & Maintenance

- App files live in:  
  `/var/lib/user_updater`

- To update the updater itself:  
  ```bash
  /var/lib/user_updater/install.sh
  ```

- To uninstall completely:  
  ```bash
  /var/lib/user_updater/uninstall.sh
  ```

Commit message:

Fix the installation command to work with sudo
The install command now works with sudo.
The command can also be run in the fish shell now.

README.md, after:

### **user_updater**

A simple tool for automatic system updates using [`topgrade`](https://github.com/topgrade-rs/topgrade),  
featuring a background systemd service and a lightweight GUI to notify users of ongoing updates.

> Only Unix systems are supported.  
> macOS *might* work, but is not officially supported.

---

###  Features

- Automatic system updates via [`topgrade`](https://github.com/topgrade-rs/topgrade)
- GUI notification when updates are in progress (`yad` popup window)
- A temporary, passwordless `builder` user (name randomized)
- Secure by default — `builder` has no login access and is deleted after use
- Background updates via systemd
- GUI notification autostarts per user
- Minimal system impact — zero interference with your daily use

---

### Why It's Great for New or Non-Technical Linux Users

Many Linux users especially beginners or those who use Linux casually  
forget or don’t know how to keep their systems updated.

**user_updater** solves this by:

- Automatically updating your system in the background — no terminal skills required
- Showing a friendly popup when updates are happening, so you know not to shut down or reboot during critical updates
- Ensuring your system stays secure and maintained with minimal input

It also runs safely by:
- Using a separate background user
- Not requiring you to enter your password every time
- Deleting the `builder` user after its job is done, preventing abuse

---

### Install

Install with a single command:

```bash
curl -s https://codeberg.org/marvin1099/user_updater/raw/branch/main/install.sh | sudo bash
```
Here your user password will have to be entered when asked.

If you don't not have sudo yet you can use this command to install the tool.  
This command will also install sudo:
```bash
cd /tmp; curl -s https://codeberg.org/marvin1099/user_updater/raw/branch/main/install.sh > install.sh; chmod +x install.sh; su -c "./install.sh"; rm install.sh
```
Here the root password will have to be entered when asked.

---

### Dependencies

You'll need the following tools installed (the installer will try to fetch them for you):

```
git awk sudo topgrade yad systemd
```

If any cant be installed by the script, install them manually using your package manager  
(e.g., `pacman`, `apt`, `dnf`, etc.), and ensure they’re in your `PATH`.

Some other standard unix tools are expexted, you should have them installed allready.  
But just in case here are the other toos that are used so you can check.
```
cd mkdir dirname touch cat id rm kill who sleep read ps readlink mktemp basename useradd chown chmod passwd getent usermod tail head grep cut ls date stat yes
```

---

### How It Works

1. **Creates a temporary user:**  
   A locked, randomized `builder` user is created with passwordless `sudo` access — only used for running updates.

2. **Systemd handles updates:**  
   A service runs at boot as root, switches to `builder`, and launches `topgrade` to update your system silently in the background.

3. **Notifies logged-in users:**  
   A lightweight GUI (`yad`) pops up on each desktop user account, showing that updates are in progress.

4. **Self-cleans:**  
   Once the update job is complete, the `builder` user is deleted to eliminate any potential security risk.

---

### After Installation

- **Restart or relogin** to activate the updater and GUI.
- **Adding new users?**  
  Restart once to index them, and again to show the GUI for them.

Even if the GUI doesn’t show up yet, updates are still running in the background.

To index new users right avay run:
```bash
sudo /var/lib/user_updater/register_updater_gui.sh
```
To skip the re-login fully run **AS GUI USER**:
```bash
/home/$USER/.config/user_updater/gui_report.sh
```

### File Locations & Maintenance

- App files live in:  
  `/var/lib/user_updater`

- To update / reinstall the updater itself:  
  ```bash
  sudo /var/lib/user_updater/install.sh
  ```

- To uninstall completely:  
  ```bash
  sudo /var/lib/user_updater/uninstall.sh
  ```
